---
layout: post
title:  "Out of the bag, RDS Plugin for (CF)Eclipse"
uid:	"8A9870B2-91A5-2DB1-B4EE327B1A7E7922"
date:   2006-03-21 11:05 AM +0000
categories: adobe
---
Finally they have released the <a href="http://labs.macromedia.com/wiki/index.php/ColdFusion/Flex_Connectivity:Eclipse_RDS_Support">RDS plugin</a> for Eclipse. This is a great contribution from <strike>Macromedia</strike> Adobe to the community. I dont know if they will charge for it but it finally gives a GREAT feature back to the community for people using CFEclipse. The nice thing about the RDS plugin is that it allows you to browse datasources on registered Coldfusion services and (on windows only) use a familiar homesite style Query Builder. I have been using the RDS plugin for a while now and its fast, damn fast! And unlike other database plugins for Eclipse its very easy for the CF'er to set it up, since you dont need to add jdbc connection strings or driver classes. <br /><br />The other feature of the RDS plugin is that you can browse the filesytem on an RDS server and edit the files (and if they are CFM files) in CFEclipse. A great combination!<br /><br />Along side the RDS plugin there are some great <a href="http://www.macromedia.com/go/labs_flex2_downloads">wizards</a> that allow you to create some DAO and Beans for each of the tables. Or you can choose to create an active record CFC. Its pretty damn awesome stuff if I may say so and it just shows how you can use CFEclipse + adobe plugins together in Eclipse as your single IDE of choice. (ok ok.. apart from the design part)<br /><br />And yes... it all comes under the banner of Flex for some reason... but I guess that is just because you can also create Flex AS objects for your database tables.<br /><br />A small warning though, I noticed that the RDS plugin doesnt seem to play nicely with the myEclipse plugin, I need to check iinto this issue more as to why that is and workarounds.