---
layout: post
title:  "Adobe adds documentation to Eclipse"
date:   2006-05-16 11:06 AM +0000
categories: adobe
---
Notice I didnt say CFEclipse? Anyway, in the latest round of plugins that Adobe has released, with the new <a target="_blank" href="http://www.dcooper.org/blog//client/index.cfm?mode=entry&amp;entry=3A035639-4E22-1671-53EDEEE1CAA496A4">CF/Flex Super Wizard</a> they have also included the ColdFusion documentation under the help menu. This is great news for all you developers.<br /><br />One strange thing I should point out. All these plugins which are labeled under &quot;Flex&quot; are actually very good Coldfusion plugins, the RDS data viewer (unless you are on a Mac, where you are stuffed if you want the Query Builder tool), the RDS File explorer, the RDS -&gt; DAO/Active Rectod wizard and now the ColdFusion documentation. They are all branded under the labs as Flex and you have to click on the &quot;Download Flex Builder&quot; before you get to them. They are very handy even if you dont even touch Flex (like me)<br /><br />I am now not sure what to do with the inline help for CFEclipse. If all the developers are using Flex Builder, and using all the CF extension/plugins then all is fine. If not, then we would have to deploy the CFHelp docs and add our own extension to go to the right help item. So you could then have two versions of the documentation, which is mad.<br /><br />Adobe seem to be doing very well adding features to Flex (which are really very useful CF Features too). Now not sure if I should continue doing work on CFE, and just let them do it all.